
AWS:

"Difference between Public vs Private vs Hybrid Cloud":
 
- Public cloud is cloud computing that’s delivered via the internet and shared across organizations.
- Private cloud is cloud computing that is dedicated solely to your organization.
- Hybrid cloud is any environment that uses both public and private clouds.
--------------------------------------
Advantages of the hybrid cloud:

1- Control—your organization can maintain a private infrastructure for sensitive assets or workloads that require low latency.
2- Flexibility—you can take advantage of additional resources in the public cloud when you need them.
3- Cost-effectiveness—with the ability to scale to the public cloud, you pay for extra computing power only when needed.
4- Ease—transitioning to the cloud doesn’t have to be overwhelming because you can migrate gradually—phasing in workloads over time.
--------------------------------------
Advantages of public clouds:

1- Lower costs—no need to purchase hardware or software, and you pay only for the service you use.
2- No maintenance—your service provider provides the maintenance.
3- Near-unlimited scalability—on-demand resources are available to meet your business needs.
4- High reliability—a vast network of servers ensures against failure.
--------------------------------------
Drawbacks of public cloud
The public cloud does come with limitations:

1- Lack of cost control. The total cost of ownership (TCO) can rise exponentially for large-scale usage, specifically for midsize to large enterprises.
2- Lack of security. Public cloud is the least secure, by nature, so it isn’t best for sensitive mission-critical IT workloads.
3- Minimal technical control. Low visibility and control into the infrastructure may not meet your compliance needs.
--------------------------------------

Advantages of private cloud: 
The most popular benefits of private cloud include:

1- Exclusive environments. Dedicated and secure environments that cannot be accessed by other organizations.
2- Custom security. Compliance to stringent regulations as organizations can run protocols, configurations, and measures to customize security based on unique workload requirements
3- Scalability without tradeoffs. High scalability and efficiency to meet unpredictable demands without compromising on security and performance
4- Efficient performance. The private cloud is reliable for high SLA performance and efficiency.
5- Flexibility. The private cloud is flexible as you transform the infrastructure based on ever-changing business and IT needs of the organization.
----------------------------------------
Drawbacks of private cloud:
The private cloud has drawbacks that might limit use cases:

1- Price. The private cloud is an expensive solution with a relatively high TCO compared to public cloud alternatives, especially for short-term use cases.
2- Mobile difficulty. Mobile users may have limited access to the private cloud considering the high security measures in place.
3- Scalability depends. The infrastructure may not offer high scalability to meet unpredictable demands if the cloud data center is limited to on-premise computing resources
-----------------------------------------
what is Multi-cloud?

Multi-cloud is the use of two or more cloud computing services from any number of different cloud vendors. A multi-cloud environment could be all-private, all-public or a combination of both. Companies use multi-cloud environments to distribute computing resources and minimize the risk of downtime and data loss. They can also increase the computing power and storage available to a business. Innovations in the cloud in recent years have resulted in a move from single-user private clouds to multi-tenant public clouds and hybrid clouds — a heterogeneous environment that leverages different infrastructure environments like the private and public cloud.
-------------------------------------------
Why Use a Multi-Cloud Strategy?

A multi-cloud strategy allows companies to select different cloud services from different providers because some are better for certain tasks than others. For example, some cloud platforms specialize in large data transfers or have integrated machine learning capabilities. Organizations implement a multi-cloud environment for the following reasons:

• Choice: The additional choice of multiple cloud environments gives you flexibility and the ability to avoid vendor lock-in.

• Disaster Avoidance: Outages happen; sometimes it is due to a disaster; other times it is due to human error. Having multiple cloud environments ensures that you always have compute resources and data storage available so you can avoid downtime.

• Compliance: Many multi-cloud environments can help enterprises achieve their goals for governance, risk management and compliance regulations.
---------------------------------------------
what is IAM?

AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) is a web service that helps you securely control access to AWS resources. You use IAM to control who is authenticated (signed in) and authorized (has permissions) to use resources.

When you first create an AWS account, you begin with a single sign-in identity that has complete access to all AWS services and resources in the account. This identity is called the AWS account root user and is accessed by signing in with the email address and password that you used to create the account. We strongly recommend that you do not use the root user for your everyday tasks, even the administrative ones. Instead, adhere to the best practice of using the root user only to create your first IAM user. Then securely lock away the root user credentials and use them to perform only a few account and service management tasks.
--------------------------------------------
IAM features:

IAM gives you the following features:

1- Shared access to your AWS account
You can grant other people permission to administer and use resources in your AWS account without having to share your password or access key.

2- Granular permissions
You can grant different permissions to different people for different resources. For example, you might allow some users complete access to Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2), Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), Amazon DynamoDB, Amazon Redshift, and other AWS services. For other users, you can allow read-only access to just some S3 buckets, or permission to administer just some EC2 instances, or to access your billing information but nothing else.

3- Secure access to AWS resources for applications that run on Amazon EC2
You can use IAM features to securely provide credentials for applications that run on EC2 instances. These credentials provide permissions for your application to access other AWS resources. Examples include S3 buckets and DynamoDB tables.

4- Multi-factor authentication (MFA)
You can add two-factor authentication to your account and to individual users for extra security. With MFA you or your users must provide not only a password or access key to work with your account, but also a code from a specially configured device.

5- Identity federation
You can allow users who already have passwords elsewhere—for example, in your corporate network or with an internet identity provider—to get temporary access to your AWS account.

6- Identity information for assurance
If you use AWS CloudTrail, you receive log records that include information about those who made requests for resources in your account. That information is based on IAM identities.

7- PCI DSS Compliance
IAM supports the processing, storage, and transmission of credit card data by a merchant or service provider, and has been validated as being compliant with Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard (DSS). For more information about PCI DSS, including how to request a copy of the AWS PCI Compliance Package, see PCI DSS Level 1.

8- Integrated with many AWS services
For a list of AWS services that work with IAM, see AWS services that work with IAM.

9- Eventually Consistent
IAM, like many other AWS services, is eventually consistent. IAM achieves high availability by replicating data across multiple servers within Amazon's data centers around the world. If a request to change some data is successful, the change is committed and safely stored. However, the change must be replicated across IAM, which can take some time. Such changes include creating or updating users, groups, roles, or policies. We recommend that you do not include such IAM changes in the critical, high-availability code paths of your application. Instead, make IAM changes in a separate initialization or setup routine that you run less frequently. Also, be sure to verify that the changes have been propagated before production workflows depend on them. For more information, see Changes that I make are not always immediately visible.

10- Free to use
AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) and AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) are features of your AWS account offered at no additional charge. You are charged only when you access other AWS services using your IAM users or AWS STS temporary security credentials. For information about the pricing of other AWS product
----------------------------------------------
